GRADUATION CEREMONY
KANAGAWA PREFECTURAL
MINEGAHARA HIGH SCHOOL
MARCH 1ST
[indistinct chatter]
[sobbing]
[ALL] Yeah!
[BOY] Mai, is that you?
Hi, mister. Do I know you?
[gasps softly]
[BOY] Didn't I dream
about this before?
RASCAL DOES NOT DREAM
OF A KNAPSACK KID
Hi, mister. Do I know you?
[gasps softly]
I guess I do look a lot more
grown-up now, don't I?
[waves crashing]
Well, I guess I do look a lot
more grown-up now, don't I?
My mom told me
that I'm not allowed
to talk to strange old men
So where is that
mom of yours, anyway?
Well, what's the matter?
Are you lost?
I know where I am.
I just don't know where this is.
Didn't you say
you weren't allowed
to talk to weird old men
a second ago?
[sighs] Fine, then.
[BOY] This is Shichirigahama.
It's much smaller than
the name actually suggests.
I'm a student at
Minegahara High School nearby.
My name is Sakuta Azusagawa.
Now I'm a little better
than a stranger, right?
[giggles]
[laughing]
-What's your name, little girl?
-Huh?
You really don't know who I am?
My name is--
[GIRL] Sakuta.
Mai?
What's this? Why so surprised?
I know I didn't
make you wait around
long enough to forget about me.
This is the real you, all right.
I'm asking why you reacted
the way you did.
I mean, there's a little girl
who looks just like you here.
See? She's right there.
But, uh...
Mai, you saw me standing
with a girl
wearing a knapsack, right?
[MAI] I didn't see anyone.
You were alone, Sakuta.
What do you mean?
There was a little girl.
She looked just like you
as a child actor.
She was right here.
So do you think
it was really me?
I wonder if it's
some sort of Puberty Syndrome.
What? What is it?
I'm worried. Are you okay?
Are you hurt?
-[stomps]
-Ouch!
Mai, that hurts!
Then you should
keep your hands to yourself.
Or maybe you need
a more thorough examina--
Ah! Ow, ow!
There's nothing wrong with me.
Now, can you please chill?
I wanted to introduce you
to someone
if you can be normal.
Huh?
[MAI] I want you to meet
Sakuta Azusagawa.
He's the guy I've been seeing.
-Sakuta, This is my--
-I am Mai's mother.
Hello. I've been dating
your daughter for a few months.
It's nice to meet you.
I know about you.
When Mai's scandal first broke
I did a full investigation.
I'm very sorry
for all the trouble
my daughter caused you
back then.
I trust
it's been quieter lately.
No paparazzi
stalking you for photos?
[SAKUTA] Yeah
I see.
I have to get going soon.
Mai, dear, the apple might
not fall far from the tree
when it comes to
your taste in men.
Just make sure
he doesn't cheat on you.
It'll be fine.
I was very careful
picking him out
and I make sure
to discipline him well.
Would it be okay
if I called you Sakuta?
Oh, sure.
She's self-centered
and causes a lot of trouble.
But please take care of her.
Yes, I'll do my best.
[MAI] So today is the last time
I'll be able to go home
with you like this.
So, uh, when did you patch
everything up with your mom?
To be honest, we still haven't.
Even though
she came to your graduation?
I never actually
asked her to come.
Then what happened?
When I was filming in Kyoto
one of the child actors
from her agency was with me too.
Someone else
from your mother's agency?
Mm.
And she told me
the girl was a fan of mine
when they stopped by to visit.
That was when she asked me
what date my graduation was.
[SAKUTA] So that was
all you said
then she showed up today?
[MAI] Yep. I thought
she wouldn't be able to make it
because she had work.
[SAKUTA] Mai
Do you still hate your mother?
[MAI] Yeah, I do.
The photos I released
when I was in middle school
she snuck in swimsuit shots
without my consent.
It's gonna take a long time
to forgive her for that.
But still
there are so many things that
have happened in the last year.
I met you, Sakuta.
Then we had difficulties with
Shoko-chan and Shoko-san too.
But through all of that
I was able to find something
precious to me.
I've had a lot more
important things on my mind.
So that hatred of her started to
die down a little bit.
And besides
the child that co-starred
with me in Kyoto
she was a lot like me.
I chatted with her mother
for a bit
when I was waiting on standby.
Her father left them
two years ago
so he's not
in the picture anymore.
After that happened
the mother started pushing her
to be more active
in the entertainment world.
She didn't like
the feeling of inferiority
from not having
a normal family.
That's when she said, "Mai
and can hope to be
in this business."
I really didn't know
what to say.
I couldn't bring myself to deny
what her mother is doing.
The two of them
were still getting along
and they seemed to
work hard together.
[SAKUTA] But weren't things
kind of like that for you
-in the past as well?
-Hmm.
I don't remember much at all.
I was really busy back then.
[SAKUTA] I can't believe
she could keep up
with such an intense schedule.
Your mother is amazing too.
Hang on. Whose side
are you on exactly?
I'm on your side, of course.
Enough for now.
I don't want to talk about this.
Either way
I can't say
I've ever truly understood.
I really don't know much
about being a mother
trying to do anything to make
her daughter feel special.
One time
my dad said this to me.
"It's okay to not understand
how a parent feels
until you actually become one."
[MAI] Hmm.
Yeah, I guess you're right.
[music playing on laptop]
-[door opens]
-[SAKUTA] I'm home.
Welcome back.
Huh?
Oh. This song.
TOKO KIRISHIMA
[GIRL] Komi told me about it.
It's good
if you already heard it.
Yeah, Mai was listening to it
the other day.
I guess it's popular.
[gasps softly]
What is this?
I knew it.
It must be Puberty Syndrome.
Considering everything
that the cause
of these symptoms
is rooted with you
or Sakurajima?
Well, I have no idea
how it could be me
'cause I have the cutest
girlfriend in the world.
Afraid that
you might be too happy?
I'm gonna be even happier
in the future
so I don't know
what I'd be afraid of.
You're a hopeless idiot.
When it comes to the young girl
that bore a striking resemblance
to Sakurajima
you were the only one
that saw her, correct?
Yeah.
Mai wasn't able
to see her at all.
Okay, then.
If that's a state
where the two of them
cannot exist simultaneously
it's possible there could be
some causality between all this.
Meaning, the girl disappearing
the moment
Sakurajima came up to you.
I think I get it.
You're saying it's like
when I couldn't perceive
the two Futabas at once?
Or how you weren't
able to observe
Shoko-chan and Shoko-san
simultaneously.
Hmm.
As to how all of this relates to
that new scar on your abdomen
I unfortunately have no idea.
So not even you know.
If it's been weighing
on your mind that much
why don't you ask Shoko-chan?
Yeah, true. I guess
I could try giving that a shot.
I think Shoko-chan
has said before
that she has memories of
experiencing multiple futures.
That's why
I don't want to ask her.
I don't want to do something
to stress her out.
She deserves better.
I want her to be as happy
as she can be.
Is it okay for a taken guy
to say something like that
about a different girl?
It's totally fine
because Mai and I
are gonna be happy together.
[doorbell rings]
Hi, Mai.
Congratulations on graduating.
Thank you so much, Kaede.
Oh, hang on. Are those pajamas?
[MAI] Of course not, you dummy.
I think, "Of course they are
would've been better.
Don't say stuff like that
in front of Kaede.
Don't be gross, Big Brother.
I brought reference books
I thought Sakuta could use
to study for the exams.
And I also brought this.
[laughing]
You're lying!
How could they?
Please, you don't need
to worry about me.
The two of you have already
given me so many things.
I've been happy
and had so much fun.
I felt lonely sometimes
and really warm
a lot of the time.
And you gave me this straw hat!
Mai is so amazing.
[MAI] Sakuta
So, what do you think?
I can definitely say for sure
that the current version of you
is much cuter
than the younger one.
[MAI] I already know that.
[SAKUTA] She looks similar.
Identical, really.
So that's all the more reason
I feel like something is off.
What do you mean?
She is way too perfect
That's why
it didn't feel like you.
It felt like a version of you
from television.
[MAI] Well
[KAEDE] Huh?
Is that how it ends?
[BOTH] Hmm?
I'm sorry.
I only had the first volume
sitting around at home.
I think Nodoka
might have all of them.
KOKONOE (1)
I'll ask her about it
next time I see her.
She's an idol
who's your biggest fan.
I'm impressed.
The two of them
seem to get along pretty well.
She helped Kaede
with her studies
until she had
school figured out.
Okay, let me help out
with something.
[MAI] Sure.
Think you can
cut the onions for me, Kaede?
[Kaede humming]
Not too bad.
How good does it have to be
before I can get
a compliment from you?
[MAI] Perfect score.
You just need to get better
at memorizing.
[grumbles]
Oh. That's right.
I want to give you this.
What is it?
Let's call it a lucky charm.
Huh?
MARRIAGE REGISTRATION
[MAI] I was a guest on a show
to promote my new movie.
there was a segment showcasing
local marriage registrations.
The staff gave me
the one they were using
during the show
as a bit of a joke.
They looked me
straight in the eye
and said I should use this
when I marry that guy.
So it's not like I went out
and got the form
on my own or anything.
-I was thinking, Mai...
-About what?
I want to have one
with your name written on it.
It would work much better
as a lucky charm that way.
Just my name, though, okay?
[scribbling]
There. Is that okay?
You know, my birthday's gonna be
on the 10th next month.
I know that.
So, that means
on the 10th of next month
I'm going to be 18 years old.
Don't submit it
without telling me.
You think being angry
is gonna stop me?
-I'll break up with you then.
-What?
Wouldn't it be better
if we submit this together?
All right. Maybe you should
hang on to it for me.
But if I'm keeping it
how can it be
a good-luck charm for you?
I can see why
it might be confusing at first
but you carrying around
a marriage license
with both our names on it
is better for me.
Well, I guess
Oh, yeah.
I actually have something I was
wanting to show you as well.
Something you want me to see?
[gasps] Wait.
What are you doing?
Huh?
What is that?
[SAKUTA] I don't know.
I came home yesterday
took my school uniform off
It looks different
from the scar you had before.
You're not making
any weird sounds.
I don't think
I noticed it until just now
but I... I don't feel anything
when you touch me there.
Not even that?
Wow. You're putting so much
effort into touching me
and I can't feel it.
Why do you
have to phrase it like that?
What's got you so quiet?
-This is somehow your fault.
-Hmm?
We're alone in this room.
You're right.
I guess it is my fault
for getting you all worked up.
But Kaede is probably going to
be getting out of the bath
any minute now.
You think so?
Okay, then.
Just a little kiss.
♪
[phone ringing]
Your phone's ringing.
I don't have time
for that right now.
[KAEDE] Big Brother
[SAKUTA]
You take the call, Kaede!
[Kaede grumbles, stomps]
[door opens, closes]
[footsteps receding]
[picks up receiver]
Big Brother, it's Dad!
[both sigh]
You're gonna
catch a cold, Kaede.
Yeah, I wonder
whose fault that would be.
Hey, Dad. What's up?
I'm calling about your mother.
Yeah?
She just got cleared to do
some recuperation at home.
I see. So she's getting better.
Yeah.
I mentioned to her that Kaede
has been feeling better, too.
She said she wants to see her.
-Mom said that?
-Yeah.
What's going on? Is Mom okay?
[SAKUTA] Dad, hold on a sec.
Hey, Kaede.
Uh, w-what?
Do you want to see Mom?
[gasps]
I really do.
I want to see her.
Where is she?
I want to go see Mom.
Hey, Dad.
[father sobbing]
I heard her.
MARCH 7TH
-[bell rings]
-Welcome to Benny's! Oh.
It's only you.
I'm here as a customer today.
I already know.
I didn't see your name
on the work shift table.
I didn't mean it like that!
Like what?
I wasn't keeping an eye
on when your shifts were.
I was only checking to see
who was on shift today.
I didn't say anything
about that, did I?
I'm sure you were having
weird thoughts about it.
Most pubescent boys usually have
weird thoughts about something.
Wow, you're the worst.
All I was thinking was you look
as cute as you normally do.
That's okay to think
Cool.
Then I'll stop thinking it.
I said it was okay
to think that.
Welcome to Benny's.
Would you like a table for one?
No. We'll be a party of two.
Has Kaede decided which schools
she wants to go to?
We went to an orientation
together the other day.
She decided
to apply right there.
Great. Glad to hear it.
Thing is
I wanted to get some advice.
You know everything that's
been going on with our mom?
Yes, she's been in and out
of the hospital a lot recently.
Yeah, she seems to be
doing a lot better lately.
And then Mom mentioned
that she wanted to see Kaede.
I see.
I asked Kaede what she wants
and she said that
she wants to see Mom.
Oh, of course
Kaede making that choice
is a really good thing
no matter what I think about it.
But I'm having
a hard time deciding
if it's okay for her
to go and see Mom.
[chuckles]
You're totally acting
like a big brother, Sakuta.
Big time big brother.
What is that supposed to mean?
Your natural instinct
is to protect.
I think that with your guidance
I'm sure that she'll
get through everything okay.
She probably already realized
that her big brother
is her strongest ally.
Have you guys decided on a date?
I wanted to talk to you
about it first
before we make a decision.
I don't think we've gotten
any sort of confirmation
from the hospital
about it yet either
so I'm waiting for their reply.
I see.
I hope they can see each other.
So, are you all right
with everything, Sakuta?
Huh?
If I remember correctly
you haven't seen your mother
in a while either.
Yeah. That's true.
Not in a long time.
If I could ask
I don't know.
I might be
a little afraid about it.
I just don't know what there is
for us to talk about, you know?
What kind of a person
do you remember
your mother being?
Let me think.
She's kind of normal, I guess.
I think I kind of remember her
being really laid-back
about everything.
But she was a homemaker.
She did everything she could
to keep the house in shape.
And I think...
It's surprising how little
we know about our parents.
Yeah. It's weird.
[footsteps]
♪
Hey, can we buy strawberries?
I'd love to.
Go ahead. Pick the one you want.
You mean it?
Okay, which one should we get?
[door opens, closes]
[SAKUTA] I'm home.
Welcome back, Brother.
I'll make us dinner
in just a minute
-so sit tight.
-Okay.
Your graduation is next week.
[KAEDE] Yeah.
I have class
But Dad said that he can go.
Mm.
Oh, one thing.
Mai called and wanted to talk
to you a few minutes ago.
She was at her shoot
in Yamanashi.
She was saying there's something
she wanted to tell you.
She told me she was gonna
call back. So any minute now.
[phone ringing]
MAI SAKURAJIMA
Hello? I belong to Mai.
[MAI] Yeah, yeah.
Are you still filming
on location?
I just got back to the hotel
after we wrapped for the day.
You must be tired.
-Sakuta.
-What is it?
I got accepted
by the university.
Congrats. Well done.
Thanks.
Hang on. I'm surprised
you're not telling me
that I need to work harder.
I already know
you're working
as hard as you can.
MARCH 9TH
And in this case, the fact that
B is smaller than A
is the condition we need for
this formula to still be true.
GRADUATION CEREMONY
THIRD MIDDLE SCHOOL
[BOY] Though they were stern
our teachers guided us
through these last three years
as gently as they could.
We had the support
of our parents, our families
to keep encouraging us
through everything.
We didn't always have
the chance to be obedient...
[door opens]
[blows nose]
So, how did the graduation go?
Man, I don't even need to ask.
It was a wonderful ceremony.
Enough about that.
I wanted to discuss
your mother's visitation.
Yeah.
-Hey, Mai.
-Welcome back.
Mai said she came to
the graduation ceremony, too.
I left location first thing
in the morning.
I'm glad you could make it.
Nodoka said
she'll join us in the evening.
We should have
a graduation party for everyone.
Did you end up seeing Dad?
Yeah, but he didn't stay long
because he was gonna swing by
the hospital to see Mom.
He said she's been feeling
more like herself lately.
I wanted to make sure
I asked you first.
I know we were talking about
going to see Mom real soon.
What do you think
about next Sunday?
What do you want to do, Kaede?
Okay, then.
I'll call Dad and tell him
when we're coming by.
MARCH 15TH
Do you think
I look weird in this dress?
That's the one
Mai gave you, isn't it?
-Mm-hmm.
-Then there's no way it's weird.
Just because it looks good
when Mai wears it
doesn't mean it's gonna look
the same on me.
Well, let's go.
Hold on.
Oh, look, it started raining.
[SAKUTA] Dad said it was perfect
because he has hay fever.
[KAEDE] Oh, yeah? I guess so.
-Big Brother?
-Mm?
I want to buy some pudding
at Yokohama Station.
I know that Mom
always really liked those.
I thought that was your
favorite thing for a while.
I love them
but I remember them being
one of Mom's favorites, too.
[SAKUTA] Really now?
[KAEDE] I'd love
to eat them with Mom again.
[train chugging]
[Sakuta sighs]
Big Brother?
Mom was the one who said
she wanted to meet up first
so everything should be okay.
But how...
Am I being that obvious?
It's all over your face.
Like how?
Like, "It's my fault Mom had to
go through as much as she did.
So what if she decides
she doesn't like me
because of
all of that hardship?"
[KAEDE] Do you really think
Mom isn't mad at me?
[SAKUTA] I don't know.
She might get mad
if she found out
that you thought
so little of her.
I know I wouldn't want you
to feel that way.
[KAEDE] Yeah.
This place?
[SAKUTA] Yeah.
Are you okay?
Yeah.
AZUSAGAWA
You ready?
One sec.
-Got it.
-[bell rings]
I told you to wait!
The longer we wait, the more
nervous you're gonna be.
Yeah, but you still
could have waited.
[door opens]
Did the rain get you?
[SAKUTA] I think I'm soaked
down to my socks.
You can take your socks off.
I have some slippers.
Thanks for inviting me.
Honey.
Kaede and Sakuta are here.
Let's go.
Mm-hmm.
Hi, Mom.
It's me.
Kaede.
Yeah.
I'm here.
Hi, Mom.
It's me, Mom.
It's really me.
[both sobbing]
It's me, Mom.
Kaede.
Is that all you can say?
I mean...
Kaede, you're so much taller.
Yeah, I think so.
And you cut your hair.
[KAEDE] Does it look weird?
[MOTHER] No.
It makes you look grown-up.
This is good.
My skills in cooking
have improved quite a bit.
Don't forget, I warmed up
the siu mai in the microwave.
Next time I come over
I can even help you
with making them.
Sounds good.
Why don't we make them together?
[KAEDE] Yeah.
I'll go shopping with you too.
[MOTHER] That sounds fun.
[all laughing]
You two will probably wanna
start heading out soon.
Why don't we just have them
stay the night?
Right?
Can we?
Yes.
Big Brother, what do you think?
Sounds great. Let's do that.
Are you gonna stay too?
I think I'll go home.
I still have to
feed Nasuno dinner.
And on top of all that
Okay. Be careful.
Make sure you take care of Mom
for me, okay, Kaede?
[KAEDE] Yep.
Take care, Mom. See you soon.
Good. The rain stopped.
Yeah.
Thank you, Sakuta. Really.
Of course.
-Tell that to Kaede, too.
-Yeah.
I'm sure
she'd be happy to hear it.
You're right.
See ya.
Sakuta.
-Hmm?
-Take this.
I kept missing the chance
to give it to you.
[SAKUTA] For your place?
[FATHER] Yeah.
You may be using it more
in the future.
All right. I'll hold on to it.
You take care now.
You too, Dad.
Take care of Kaede and Mom.
Maybe...
Maybe the four of us
can live together again.
And then they started talking.
And all that anxiety
about the meeting
just kind of melted away
like it was never there
to begin with.
Before we knew it
things were back
to how they were.
You never would've guessed
it'd been two years
since they saw each other.
[MAI] Sounds like Kaede
gave it her all.
-Yeah.
-I'm so glad.
Uh...
Sorry. I didn't mean
to go on so long.
Thank you though.
It's fine.
I was worried about that, too.
I've got everything ready
for tomorrow's shoot.
You're coming back home
on Thursday this time?
I plan to.
I'll be ready
with open arms for you.
Good night, Sakuta.
Good night, Mai.
MARCH 16TH
[alarm beeping]
[grunts]
[indistinct chatter]
[TEACHER] Here are
your graded final exams.
Ito!
Ueda!
Ogura!
Kamisato!
Tanaka!
Nishida!
Watanabe!
All right, so let's talk about
that first question.
-[chalk scribbling]
-Excuse me, sir
I haven't gotten
my test back yet.
Sir, do you think you can
give me my test back now?
A lot of you messed up
on this one, so pay attention.
Hey, sir!
This right here.
These grammar problems
will sneak up on you
in the college
entrance exams too.
If you got this one wrong
So the first problem.
"Fill in the gap below
so that the full sentence means
-'I have sent her back home.'"
-Hey, guys.
The English sentence is
Anybody?
Can you guys see me?
-Hey!
-[teacher continues]
[SAKUTA] Can none of you really
see or hear me at all?
Hey!
What the hell is going on?
[inaudible]
It must be Puberty Syndrome.
Am I just like
Mai used to be before?
First things first.
I should confirm
just how invisible I am.
-Underlined phrase A states...
-Kunimi!
...even in days like these
And why is that?
Try and stay calm.
Just stay calm.
[TEACHER] This symbol
is called sheepda...
No, that's not right.
This symbol is called lambda.
-It's used to denote wavelength.
-[SAKUTA] Futaba!
Not good.
Okay. There's no way
Koga won't see me.
-[door slams]
-Excuse me!
[TEACHER] By using
the sine theorem, you get
square root of two
divided by sine
equals two times
square root of two.
If we were to run...
[SAKUTA] If Koga
can't even see me
this is a lot worse
than I thought.
Okay. I think Mai should
still be on set filming
this time of day.
But if I can at least leave her
a message or something...
Mm?
It won't ring.
-[dialing]
-Toyohama?
Nothing.
I just don't understand
how I ended up this way.
Was there anything that changed
between yesterday and today?
I met with Mom yesterday.
Of course.
All right then.
Time to head back. Uh...
[gasps]
Am I feeling nervous?
About what?
Needing to see Mom again?
[sighs]
Mm?
Oh!
So you have to boil the potatoes
before you make the croquettes.
[MOTHER] That's right.
After you blanch
and mix sautéed ground meat
and onions into it.
[KAEDE] That's a lot of work.
[MOTHER] But since
you're helping me this time
it's gonna be
a lot easier for me.
[KAEDE] I'll do my best.
[gasps]
[both giggling]
[panting]
[door opens]
[footsteps]
[paper rustling]
I FAIL AS A MOTHER.
A diary?
It's Mom's.
[MOTHER] "Today, I told Kaede
that things were okay.
I'm a terrible mother.
I want to see Kaede.
I want to apologize.
I want to be a real mother
to her this time."
"March the 15th.
Kaede has turned
into such a brilliant girl.
She's blossoming into a woman.
I'm so happy.
I want to make sure I can
be there for Kaede from now on.
I want all three of us
to live together."
"All three."
Only three?
[gasps]
WANT TO SEE KAEDE
KAEDE WAS...
KAEDE'S MOTHER
WITH KAEDE
My name isn't in here...
at all.
Oh, no.
I didn't make eye contact
with Mom at all yesterday.
Not even once.
To her, it was like
I didn't show up at all.
Is that what's going on?
We were together for hours
that she didn't say my name once
the whole time.
But I...
I never gave her the attention
she deserved either.
When did it start?
When was I cutting myself off
from Mom without realizing it?
Why was it normal
for her to not be there?
When did I get comfortable
with this without realizing it?
And that's why Mom...
KAEDE'S MOTHER
[winces]
Now I get it.
This is the spot that linked me
to Mom before I was born.
I guess this is
no laughing matter.
-[door opens]
-[gasps]
[KAEDE] We're back!
Those are so heavy.
Are you okay?
[KAEDE] Yeah, I'm fine.
[MOTHER]
That's my big, strong girl.
[KAEDE] They aren't
even that heavy.
Let's see.
We have to
boil the potatoes first, right?
Let's get everything we'll use
on the salad in the fridge.
Sure. Got it.
[SAKUTA] I was living my life
doing what I could
to not think about Mom.
This is delicious.
I'm the one who made it.
And you did an excellent job.
[KAEDE] It took me a while...
[SAKUTA] I tried
to forget about Mom.
I tried to be happy that way.
And this is what I get for it.
What do you like to eat, Dad?
[SAKUTA] Dad, Mom, and Kaede.
Just the three of them
as a family.
-[waves crashing]
-[footsteps approaching]
I wish I could see Mai.
-[GIRL] Mister, are you lost?
-[gasps softly]
No, I know where I am.
I think
you're the one who's lost.
You think so?
It's way too late
for a kid your age
to be wandering alone.
Yeah? Well
So you can really see me, huh?
What, are you invisible?
Yeah, I think I might be.
I knew that you were lost.
Fair to say, I'm lost in life.
Okay. Why don't you and me
walk home together?
Let's go.
♪
[SAKUTA] I'm so tired.
I'll try to go see her
tomorrow.
I need to see Mai.
[KAEDE] Big Brother. [echoing]
Big Brother.
It's morning.
-[gasps]
-[exclaims]
You can't shoot out of bed
like that!
What? Is something wrong?
You... You're here.
I sure am.
And you can see me?
What is going on with you?
[MOTHER] Kaede
His eyes are open
Oh. This is my room.
Okay.
Something weird is going on.
MARCH 17TH
Hey, Mom
Sure.
Here you go.
Thank you.
Honey, no work
while we're eating.
Yeah.
Sakuta, is something wrong?
Are you not feeling well?
No. I'm okay.
You've been out of it
all morning.
You're gonna have to eat quickly
if you don't want to be late.
It's only a bit past 7:00
Oh, wow. You're still sleepy?
You'll be late if you don't
leave by half past.
Oh, right.
Your high school
is really far away.
Is it though?
Minegahara High School
isn't close at all.
You'll be going there
in April, Kaede
so make sure
you wake up early too.
[gasps softly]
Sakuta, are you sure
you're okay?
I'm fine.
Thanks for the meal.
Still here.
I guess this isn't over yet.
Sakuta, I have your lunch.
-Thanks.
-[gasps]
[unzips bag]
Mm? What is it?
It's unusual for you
to be thanking me.
Oh, really?
Well, I'm off.
Be careful out there.
See you later tonight
This is the house
we lived in before.
[GIRL] Oh.
Oh. Hey, Kano.
Hi. Good morning.
I just came out here
to throw out the trash.
Kano, while I have you here
What is it?
Is she...
getting bullied?
Oh, gosh. Of course not.
There hasn't been
anything like that
not even up to graduation.
Really?
It's all thanks to
what you did for her
when you took over
the broadcast room.
That was so amazing.
I did what now?
Oh. You mean...
You should hear the way
she talks about you.
She says, "I'm so glad
he's my big brother."
♪
[SAKUTA] Okay, then.
So I somehow
resolved the bully problem
by taking over
some student broadcast.
What else?
So, in this universe
our family never broke up
and we all stayed
in the same house.
Mom didn't struggle
with mental illness
so she didn't
have to be hospitalized.
Oh, Sakuta!
Hey.
What relationship
do I have with Toyohama?
Why are you being shy?
I thought
you were gonna take my money.
I would never do that!
Why aren't you in school?
Because we're taking
our package photo today.
Crap, it's almost time
to catch the train!
Ciao!
Oh, wait a second.
Are Mai and I...
[to himself]
Are we in a relationship?
Good morning, Sakuta.
Morning.
Is that all I get?
What exactly would you prefer?
You want me to say
that you look cute?
No. You know
I did not mean it like that.
It's not okay for a guy
with a girlfriend
to go around telling other girls
they look cute.
Hmm. Girlfriend, huh?
Yeah, Sakurajima
Sheesh!
[relieved sigh]
Oh, there's Nana.
I guess I'll see you later
this afternoon.
-You will?
-Really?
You forgot
about your shift at 4:00?
Man, I don't know
what's going on today
but you're acting weird.
Nana!
[giggling]
[indistinct chatter]
[panting]
Good morning.
Howdy.
Morning practice again?
Yeah.
Are you working later today?
I am. Heard I start at 4:00.
You needed someone
to tell you that?
Azusagawa.
Uh, yeah?
Here. Your turn today.
Oh. Thank you.
The bell's gonna ring soon.
[SAKUTA] Hey, Kunimi
[YUUMA] Huh?
She's in your class.
Ikumi Akagi, I think.
Oh, she is?
Come on.
What are you talking about?
You said you went
to middle school with her.
Oh, yeah, I did.
Are you really sure
you're okay, Sakuta?
[SAKUTA] Akagi.
I can remember hearing
that name during middle school.
The classmates I have here
are the same
except for Ikumi Akagi.
I can't say I understand much
about that girl
who looks
a lot like Sakurajima.
But if everything you've told me
in this conversation is true
prior to this moment
and then something
subsequently triggered there
to bring you over
into alternate Universe B.
I've read some interpretations
of quantum mechanics
that are supported
by what you've stated here.
Past, present and future
are always available.
So you're saying
they're parallel universes
and they can all
exist simultaneously?
It would be more accurate to say
that such is true for you
but as I'm not currently able
to perceive them
these parallel universes
do not exist for me.
I see. Right.
How do you think I can
get back to my old universe?
I'm going to say
that all depends on you.
I assume you know
what brought you here.
[sighs]
[inaudible]
Yeah.
Hey, what do you think
about your mom, Futaba?
Can you tell me?
I, uh...
I think my mother is...
someone who refused to step into
the role of being a mother.
[SAKUTA] Hmm.
When you become a parent
your life starts to center
itself around your child.
A lot of mothers
barely get called
by their names anymore.
For example, she's always
"Sakuta's mom"
or "Kaede's mom
-Yeah.
My mother was one
who always shied away
from accepting
the title of "Rio's mom."
She didn't want to focus
everything on raising me.
She was strong.
I think she didn't want
to use child rearing
as an excuse
to give up on her dreams...
[sighs]
...however flawed
her approach might have been.
You're so practical.
You and Kunimi made it easier
for me to start
thinking that way.
That aside
when are you going to hurry up
and decide what you want?
Like what?
Going back
to that other universe
and giving everything
your best shot?
Is that really like me, though?
[RIO] Or you could give up
[SAKUTA] Well
[RIO] If I were
to hazard a guess
there's something you like more
about this place.
It allows you to escape
something in your world.
I thought you were supposed to
be nicer to depressed people.
[phone vibrating]
Futaba, your phone's ringing.
-It's not me. It's you, right?
-Huh?
[phone continues vibrating]
Seriously?
Hi. I belong to Mai.
[MAI] You were slow to answer.
Were you that desperate
to hear my voice?
Sure was.
Sakuta, what are you
up to right now?
I was eating my lunch
in the physics prep room.
Is that a normal place
to eat food?
They serve coffee
after your meal
so I recommend it.
You said
you had work today, right?
-I do.
-From what time?
Four o'clock.
Wanna hang out at my place
until then?
Only if the two of us
can be all lovey-dovey.
I could help you
prepare for next year.
Maybe I'd be more interested
if you tutored me
in your bunny girl outfit.
-I threw that out a while ago.
-What? No way!
So, are you coming over or not?
Uh, there was more I wanted
to talk about with Futaba
so I'll pass for today.
Sorry, Mai.
You have nothing
to apologize for.
Well, thank you.
I don't need to be
thanked for it either.
Then, I love you.
I know that.
I love you a lot.
I'm gonna hang up now.
Regardless of the universe
I wasn't lying when I told her
that I loved her.
That's what I'm talking about.
You should honestly just use
this time to go on a date.
If I see her
With what?
If I see Mai now
I'd probably start thinking
to myself that staying here
and being happy
isn't such a bad idea.
So, tomorrow, be nice
to the other me.
Don't say that
if you're just gonna
come right back here for advice.
You can laugh at me if I do.
[locker door closes]
[footsteps approaching]
[SAKUTA] So you're
totally okay with it?
[IKUMI] With what, exactly?
[SAKUTA] Having a conversation
with me.
[IKUMI] I knew that the rumors
about the hospitalization
incident weren't true.
[SAKUTA] Then what made you
decide on this high school?
You would've gotten accepted
into a more prestigious school.
[line ringing]
[MOTHER] What is it, Sakuta?
[SAKUTA] It's nothing big
Did I tell you I'd be home late
because of work?
[MOTHER] Yeah, I heard about it
last night.
That's why
I packed you a lunch today.
[SAKUTA] Oh, right. Of course.
[MOTHER] Are you
still half asleep?
[SAKUTA] I might be.
I ate the entire lunch.
[laughs] Oh! The rice was
a bit soft today, wasn't it?
I think I added
the wrong amount of water.
It was perfect
when it cooled down.
Really?
And the chicken, it was good.
Wow! A compliment
for little ol' me?
-Look at you.
-Hmm?
Thank you.
For what?
For becoming
a wonderful big brother.
I am?
You've protected Kaede.
Yeah.
Keep working hard.
-You know, I just...
-What?
Never mind. Forget about it.
All right.
Well, be careful, okay?
Mm-hmm.
♪
[GIRL] Did you get lost
again, mister?
No, I'm not lost anymore.
Why?
Because I know
where I need to go back to.
You're going home?
You could stay here, you know.
It's tempting.
This place
is pretty comfortable.
But it's a little
too comfortable.
Is comfortable bad?
I'm not saying it's a bad thing
but everyone around me
made do on their own.
Who's everyone?
Well, first, there's Mai, Koga
then Futaba, and Toyohama
the two Kaedes
and then Shoko-chan
and Shoko-san.
They got over things
on their own
so I...
I can get over this thing
I have about Mom.
With all that being said
I'm counting on you.
You really want to go back
that bad, huh?
I sure do.
If you go back there
everyone you know
won't remember you.
Even then, I still
don't wanna stay here.
No matter what?
No matter what.
Really really?
Really really.
All right.
I'll help you get back.
[alarm beeping]
I guess I'm back now.
MARCH 18TH
Mm?
PLEASE GET A GRIP
So, the me from that world
was here instead?
AND WHAT DO YOU THINK
ABOUT TOKO KIRISHIMA?
What do I think about Toko?
I don't really have
any thoughts on her.
"When you get back
put the letter inside
the mailbox at Mai's house."
The letter?
Oh.
I'LL GUARANTEE
MAI-SAN'S HAPPINESS
This is none of your business.
FROM MAI-SAN'S SAKUTA
Even if I look at this
objectively, it's annoying.
And the handwriting sucks.
[rips page]
I'LL GUARANTEE
MAI-SAN'S HAPPINESS.
FROM MAI-SAN'S SAKUTA
If my memory is right
Mai said she was coming back
from her filming tomorrow.
TO MAI-SAN
Until then
I'll keep spending my time
like I usually do.
I still have Mai.
It's fine.
Nothing to worry about.
[indistinct chatter]
It'll be okay.
Mai will be able to find me
once tomorrow comes.
I just have to wait.
[WOMAN] I'm closing up
the library.
Nobody in here, right?
Okay, then.
I guess I'll stick around
to watch all the lights
get shut off.
I hardly ever get
the chance to see that.
It's cold.
[inaudible]
Oh, Mai.
I really hope
she gets back here soon.
[sighs]
Mm?
♪
[breath trembling]
Why are you...
I thought you wouldn't be back
until tomorrow.
Sakuta.
Hmm?
[MAI] Someday, let's have
a family together.
[gasps]
So it really worked.
Hmm?
Your lucky charm.
I could remember you
because this was with me.
So I ended up coming back
a day earlier than I planned.
I saw the letter in my mailbox
and thought you would be here.
-[whistle blows]
-[doors close]
[inhales]
[yells]
It looks like
a Showa-era breakfast.
Thanks for the food.
This is good.
After you're done eating
You must be tired.
Make sure you're resting.
You should come
in the bath with me
and I can stay there forever.
If I did that
I'll hop into the bath
after you're done.
I made a stop at the house.
I picked up that sleepover set
you love so much.
[water sloshing]
What exactly am I wanting to do?
I have to keep my hands on you
otherwise you might
run away again.
I just...
I needed to
forget about my mother
in order to survive.
I moved here with Kaede
right after
she lost her memory.
In that life, I couldn't rely
on Mom or Dad for anything.
I woke up on my own
in the morning
I made meals
I did the laundry.
I cleaned the whole house
I took the trash out.
I had to do everything.
So I learned
how to do everything.
I had to be strong alone
without my mother
being around to help me.
It wasn't like I wanted
to live day after day
forgetting about her.
Mm.
And I didn't have any idea
when my mom would be
getting better either.
There wasn't a guarantee
she would ever get better.
I see.
Eventually, that just
became the norm.
I had to force myself
into this lifestyle at first
but the life I'm living now
is really comfortable.
Mm.
Why is this happening now
after all this time?
These questions have always
been there under the surface.
It just took me a while
to realize.
Of course, it's good
that my mom is getting better
but it's hard for me to accept.
I feel like I'm being
spineless and pathetic.
[MAI] There's nothing
wrong with you.
Come on. Really?
I mean, you didn't
rely on your parents
and learned to cook
and take care of you and Kaede
on your own.
You wake yourself up
in the morning
you go to school
you work to earn your own money.
There's a word for people
who do all that.
Do you know what it is?
Mm-mm.
We call them adults.
It just means
that you're all grown-up.
[sniffling]
[crying]
MARCH 19TH
Morning.
Good morning, pretty lady.
What are you doing?
I just wanted to make sure
you didn't take off
my underwear.
I'd never do that
without consent.
You sure about that?
I only gave you a kiss.
You did?!
Okay, Sakuta, enough!
Get away from me.
[SAKUTA] You're too cute!
I can't...
[both grunting]
[Mai chuckles softly]
[MAI] This is a special case.
Man
this is just what I needed.
Five more seconds, okay?
No.
I want five more hours.
Okay. Five minutes.
I should have said five days.
Don't be ridiculous.
Sakuta, what's your plan today?
What's yours?
I'm right back to work.
I'm still shooting that film
in Yamanashi.
Are you okay?
You didn't get any sleep.
I was going to have Ryoko
drive me back out there.
I can take a nap on the way.
What about you, Sakuta?
I'm going to pay a visit to Mom.
You're okay alone?
I don't think I know.
It has to happen.
I think I can get through it.
It's fine.
I need to see my mom again.
When things calm down
I really want you to
introduce me to your mother.
Think you can do that for me?
[door closes]
-[tap running]
-[dishes clinking]
[door closes]
AZUSAGAWA
[unlocks door]
Hey, Mom?
Kaede?
Did they end up going somewhere?
OUTPATIENT VISIT
Which one of these
hospital rooms is Mom's?
Well, since I'm invisible
I'll just start opening them
one after another.
I'll go and see
if I can call Dad.
Having a sister
makes life easier.
I think I was too eager.
I know.
Mom.
She's really trying.
Stuffed in this tiny room
alone for two years.
Mom, you tried so hard.
But it's not like...
I didn't already know
all of this.
It was so tough
because she was trying.
[sniffles]
I have to thank you, Mom.
You never gave up.
Thank you for getting better.
Thank you for being a mother.
You gave birth to me.
You raised me.
Thank you.
I'm gonna be all right.
I promise.
No matter
how many times it takes
I'll keep coming back here
to visit
until you can finally see me.
Bye, Mom.
Be back soon.
[MOTHER] Sakuta.
[shuddering sob]
You see me?
You came all this way to visit?
I did.
What about school?
We're basically
on spring break right now.
You shouldn't
be skipping school.
Yeah, I know it's not the best.
It's good to see you.
Huh?
It's been so long
since I've seen your face.
Really, Mom?
Thank you so much, Sakuta.
From now on, I'll come back
to visit whenever you want.
And thank you for Kaede.
I'm so glad
that you're her big brother.
I'm sorry I left it all on you.
I love you
more than anything, Sakuta.
[sobbing]
Mm? Big Brother?
[SAKUTA] Kaede?
What are you doing here?
I wanted to see Mom
and have a proper conversation
with her.
Just like you did, Kaede.
[all sobbing]
[SAKUTA] Out of nowhere
all of us started
bawling our eyes out.
But by letting that out
it felt like that's when
we were a family again.
[♪ closing theme song playing]
MARCH 21ST
[door opens]
-[YUUMA] Sakuta.
-Hmm?
You got a cute customer
waiting for you at table six.
Is it Mai?
You'll see when you go there.
There you are, Sakuta.
It's been a while.
I hope I'm not being
a bother or anything.
No. I started a break
a minute ago.
I'm sorry. I don't wanna hog
too much of your break.
Feel free to keep eating.
Sweet. Then I will.
Mm!
It looks like
you're in good shape.
Yeah, well
since I had my surgery.
It's all thanks to Mai.
That movie
that one where she played
a girl with heart disease.
I heard a ton
of organ donors registered
after that movie came out.
Did Mai tell you if she could
remember me all on her own?
No. She forgot about you.
The two of us
had the same experience.
She remembered on the way home
from the shrine
back when she saw you again
on the shores of Shichirigahama
on New Year's.
So, what brings you here?
I'm moving.
I wanted to tell you in person.
Where to?
To Okinawa.
If I'm in a warmer area
it isn't as hard for my body
to keep going.
After I get settled in
Okinawa, huh? Sounds great.
I'll send you a letter when I
get used to things over there.
I'll be waiting.
You'd better send pictures too.
Yes.
I'll be sure
to enclose a swimsuit shot.
Please wait three years
to do that.
In three years then.
I'll mail you something that'll
make you have a fight with Mai.
Looking forward to that.
Yes! [chuckles]
Oh, yeah.
There was something else
that I thought
I should bring up today.
Hmm?
There is something
slightly concerning.
What's going on?
I can still remember everything.
You and Mai
don't have those memories
but it seems like
I retained everything.
I can still remember memories
from every version of myself
that I've lived
even in their futures.
Yeah, I already knew that.
But nothing I do
can make it show up.
What's not showing up?
This doesn't.
TOKO KIRISHIMA
[SAKUTA] That's...
In the multiple futures
that I have experienced
Toko Kirishima's music
didn't exist in any of them.
[gasps softly]
♪
[GIRL] Congratulations
on your enrollment.
RASCAL SERIES
UNIVERSITY ARC
ANIMATION PRODUCTION CONFIRMED